Ian Lyttle, Small Team, Big Value
Klaus Wilke
The next inspiration, you're all very familiar
with Jenny's keynote this morning.
And from her, I'm very inspired by the tooling,
and we got a little bit of this this morning,
is that she's very good at pointing out
how we need to focus on what's important
and to work towards good enough.
And I very much like this image.
This is from a tweet that she sent out
in conjunction with a paper,
Good Enough Practices in Data Science,
with Greg Wilson and others.
And what makes this idea so interesting
is that she helps provide the tools
to help us focus our ideas.
And you may be familiar with the Use This Package.
I use it extensively.
And then the Happy Git With R,
and I think one of the best URL names ever,
what they forgot to teach you about RStats.
The third inspiration is,
if you were here last year for David Robinson's keynote,
this helped to clarify a lot of things for me,
is that I suppose I was a lot like Dave,
in that I thought that things would become
less useful to more useful
as the idea became more mature.
But in practice,
anything that is still on your computer
is essentially useless.
And anything that is off your computer
has got a chance.
And so this was a very clarifying idea from Dave
that I'm going to try to carry through.
And then finally, community.
And that R-Ladies has been a great inspiration
in how to really set up an effective community.
I hope it's okay that I single out Gabriella in this.
Perhaps appropriate because we're in San Francisco
where she launched it.
And now, as I'm sure you know, hundreds of chapters.
And in addition to the great technical exchanges
that go on,
what benefits me,
and certainly I'm not central to this,
is that through their amplification of voices
and focusing on some very important conversations,
it really benefits all of us.
So I wanted to point out R-Ladies
as a particular inspiration to me.
So I'd like to spend the next few minutes
going through a particular problem
that we're addressing at Schneider.
And this is to come up with a categorical color palette.
And the challenge is that we have these brand colors
that are optimized for marketing,
but they're not optimized for data visualization.
And as you may know,
these are two competing sets of goals here.
And from the data visualization point of view,
we want to propose a related categorical palette.
And I want to take into account color vision deficiency,
yet still remain Schneider-y.
And of course, Schneider-y is in the eye of the beholder,
and particularly the UI design team
who will have the ultimate say on this.
So I'm going to walk you through
some of the steps that we went through.
So we start out with technique.
And as I say, the book offers some useful advice,
and Klaus is also one of the contributors
to the color space package.
And if you go on YouTube
and look for the UseR! talks last year,
that Akam Xylus had a tremendously useful talk
that really helped us get on our way.
And as a bit of a side note,
it was at this conference a year ago
that I was very fortunate to be sitting beside
during a session Carla Scheidegger,
who's here this time as well.
And during the wee breaks between the presentations,
I got a very short course on color theory
that was very illuminating.
But the upshot of it here is,
and Will Chase talked about this a little bit this morning,
I'll use slightly different words,
is to think in terms of hue, chroma, and luminance
rather than red, green, and blue.
And there's all these interesting paths
that you can go down.
You know, for instance,
we start with RGB, hue, chroma, luminance,
visible gamut, color vision deficiency,
perceptual distance, it just goes on and on.
And each of these are super interesting rabbit holes
that Hayley and I, we found ourselves lost in them.
And it makes for great fun.
And at times, you know, I think we felt like this guy.
So what we needed is focus.
And this is where we come back to this idea of tooling.
And that we needed numbers to show perceptual differences.
And that we began with the color space package
and then we're tuned in to Thomas Lynn Peterson's
Farver package, which can be used to quantify
differences between colors.
And we decided to try to put these together
with a set of tools that we could use.
And this is available out on GitHub.
It's called Paloval, and it's this first sort of mix
between color space and Farver.
And in the spirit of the FAA certified duct tape
that we see here, it's good enough now.
I hope to improve it later.
But it got us through what we needed to do.
It's 70% there.
Then on to communication.
We created an internal blog, and then using Distil,
and we're lucky enough at Schneider Electric
that we have an internal instance of GitHub Enterprise.
So a lot of these, this great tooling
that the Tidyverse team have built for open source
that we can adapt within the company.
So we're able to serve this out on GitHub Enterprise.
It's a Distil blog, another package from our studio.
And it helps us to get our ideas out there.
And then finally, once we get the ideas out there,
we need to seek more opinions,
and we need to get new perspectives.
So we're building this thing at Schneider Electric.
Our term of art at Schneider Electric is a community at work.
And the idea is we want it to be by practitioners for practitioners.
That if, you know, we don't care what tool you use,
we know that we're going to be using all different tools.
But if we can meet and discuss what we think about
when we create a visualization,
this can be a useful thing.
And we also hope that this can be a useful point of contact
with the UI design team.
So if we come up with recommendations that we hope
that all of these different business units can use,
that at least we've had a chance to discuss them amongst ourselves.
And, you know, first of all, we'll get better ideas.
And hopefully this helps to facilitate adoption of the ideas.
So our result is this is our first proposal here.
And this takes into account color vision deficiency.
It's potentially Schneider-y.
And we've had some useful feedback,
and I'll share some of it with you as I think we'll...
I'm not sure how well it's showing up on these screens,
but we may in fact remove the reds.
Because for some color vision deficient folks,
it was difficult to tell apart from the purples.
And as I'm learning that red can be a very useful color
but can sometimes convey a sentiment
that you're not intending to convey.
And with a categorical color palette,
unless you want to say that something is...
really requires your attention,
we might go with something that's more neutral.
But the thing here is that we designed this using R,
but the thing that we deliver are the hex codes.
And that the rest of Schneider, as long as it works,
perhaps aren't terribly concerned that we used R,
but that what we do deliver,
that these hex codes can be useful in all of these different tools
that then get used in front of the customers.
So I'd like to spend a...
just to sort of wrap up with the...
with some ideas of other things
that I was thinking of putting in this talk,
but didn't make it into the talk,
so I call it more broadly,
is that under technique,
I'm very much like this idea of the grammar of graphics
as a description as well as a tool.
And it's got this very handy implementation
that will build your chart for you,
but for me, it helps to focus my thinking
and it helps me to be able to describe in very clear terms
to somebody who's using their own tool,
map this variable to the x-axis,
map this variable to your fill color,
so on and so forth,
use this type of scale.
And this is just another way that Klaus's book
has been tremendously useful to us.
In terms of tooling,
interactivity is something that we're interested in
and certainly in front of our customer
that we're using interactive tools,
and we're very interested in Vega-Lite.
And indeed, right now,
there's a talk by Alicia Shep,
who's doing some super cool stuff
to build Vega-Lite specs,
so please make sure you get a chance to watch that
when the videos are released,
as well as Dewey Dunnington,
who's talking about ggplot2,
so I really wish I could have been
in four places at once right now.
Perhaps three places at once.
But Alicia and I,
we have an organization on GitHub on VegaWidget,
which provides some tools
if you're interested in Vega-Lite
and interactive visualization,
some first steps towards that.
With communication, just to reiterate,
move things off of your computer,
get them into the world.
So nothing terribly new there.
But this one is,
I think this is my secret,
this has been the secret
to a lot of my success
and enjoyment of my job
over the past six or seven years,
is to get to know a local university.
I am tremendously lucky
that I work in Iowa,
and I'm able to visit Iowa State
every so often and work with Heike Hoffman.
And this has led us to hire some interns,
one of whom is here.
I'm very glad to see her.
As well, that led to being able to sponsor Haley
as a PhD student.
So if you have a chance to get to know
a local university,
maybe you run into somebody here,
I find that this is a way
to continue the spirit of this conference
throughout the rest of the year.
So with that, I'm happy to
yield back the floor to Fareed.
Thank you very much.
Some links that may be useful,
and thank you very much.
So we have a couple of minutes for questions.
Let me just check our Slido.
And if you haven't submitted,
you are welcome to stand up
and ask a question as well.
One question is,
it sounds like our team
ended up leading the charge
for something that is going to benefit
the entire organization,
a huge organization.
Why do you think your team
ended up with this opportunity
slash responsibility,
and what do you think made you successful in the end?
Well,
I think we're in the right place.
We're a central organization,
because each business
is quite rightly interested
in their success,
and the success of their customers.
One of our charters as a group
is to try to get all the,
to address the interests
that are common to all the businesses.
So I think we're in a good position
to do that.
And this has been a first step.
I hope to report back
at some point
with all of the other
recommendations that we'll have made.
But a lot of the time
that we had spent last year
was really getting our ducks in a row
and thinking about things
like communication and community
and essentially the four points
that I brought up through the slides.
Great.
Any other questions off the floor?
All right.
Let's thank Ian. Thank you so much.
Thank you. Really appreciate it.
Thank you.